IBX-4981 Page Builder for B2B Portals (#195)
ezsystems/user-documentation: docs/customer_management/build_customer_portal.md

---

> description: Use Page Builder to create and edit Customer Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use Page Builder to create and edit a Customer Portal.
```

edition: experience
---

# Create and edit Customer Portal

> To create and edit Customer Portal with Page Builder, you need to set it up in configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create and edit a Customer Portal with Page Builder, you need to first set it up in configuration.
```

For detailed instructions on how to do it, go to

> [Create Customer Portal]([[= developer_doc =]]/customer_management/cp_page_builder/) in Developer Documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Create Customer Portal]([[= developer_doc =]]/customer_management/cp_page_builder/).
```

> The Customer Portal creation and edition are based on Page Builder feature and work on the same principles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Customer Portal creation and edition are based on Page Builder and work on the same principles.
```

> If you are unfamiliar with how Page Builder works follow [Create and edit Pages](create_edit_pages.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unfamiliar with how Page Builder works, see [Create and edit Pages](create_edit_pages.md).
```

## Create Customer Portal

> To create a new Customer Portal, go to **Content** and from the list select **Content structure**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new Customer Portal, go to **Content** and from the menu select **Content structure**.
```

> There, you should navigate to the root folder for your Customer Portals. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There, navigate to the root folder for your Customer Portals. 
```

If you don't have one, you can add it yourself.
Remember to specify its `location_id` in the configuration, you will find it under **Details**.
For more information, see [Configure Page Builder access to Customer Portal.]([[= developer_doc =]]/customer_management/cp_page_builder/#configure-page-builder-access-to-customer-portal)

Inside a root folder you can select **Create content** from the right-side toolbar.
On the list of Content items, you will see two possibilities **Customer Portal** and **Customer Portal Page**.

![Create content tab](img/cp_portal_vs_page.png)

The first one is a container for your Customer Portal pages (this is not a root folder), and the second one represents the actual page.

> We highly recommend that you use Customer Portal containers to divide and store your portal pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use Customer Portal containers to divide and store your portal pages.
```

> First, select **Customer Portal** and name it appropriately.

Reviewer: change to a numbered list?

> Next, navigate to a newly added container and create **Customer Portal Page**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, navigate to the newly added container and create **Customer Portal Page**. 
```

![Customer Portal container](img/cp_folder_for_portals.png)

> On the **Page creation** modal, you should see the Customer Portal layout where you can 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Page creation** box, you should see the Customer Portal layout where you can 
```
"modal" is a technical term, so maybe box/pop-up/screen?

add dedicated Customer Portal block, Sales Representative, or choose from selection of blocks available to your [[= product_name =]] version.

For a list of blocks available out of the box, see [Block reference](block_reference.md).

![Page Builder view](img/cp_page_builder.png)

If provided ready-to-use Page blocks are not sufficient, you can [add your own blocks]([[= developer_doc =]]/content_management/pages/create_custom_page_block/).

> Before you publish or save the Customer Portal page, edit its title and description in the Field view, you can find it in the top-left-side toolbar.

Reviewer: "top-left-side toolbar" is confusing, even with the accompanying screen

Author: The placement of this toolbar is confusing, and the icons are not helping. The error message just says 'Fields error' and adds a soft red highlight on the Fields button.

> If you are ready to publish the Customer Portal page, click **Publish** in the top-right corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are ready to publish the Customer Portal page, click **Publish** in the top right corner.
```

> You can also save it as a draft, even if some required fields are not filled in, click **Save draft**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also save it as a draft, even if some required fields are not filled in.
To do it, click **Save draft**.
```

## Add multiple pages

You can have multiple Customer Portal pages available in one Customer Portal by adding them under one Customer Portal container.

> If company members have sufficient `content/read` policies and have the portal assigned to their Customer Group, they will see the changes in the left-side menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If company members have sufficient `content/read` Policies and have the portal assigned to their Customer Group, they will see the changes in the left menu.
```

To be able to see the multipage display in the Page Builder, you also need to be a member of the company with sufficient permissions.

![Multiple pages in one portal](img/cp_multiple_pages.png)

You can manipulate the order of pages in a menu by assigning priority to them in the **Customer Portal** container under **View**->**Sub-items**.

![Assigning page priority](img/cp_page_priority.png)

## Grant permissions

> Company members need to have below permissions to be able to see custom Customer Portals:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Company members need to have the following permissions to be able to see custom Customer Portals:
```

> - `user/login` to `custom_portal` SiteAccess

Reviewer: Is it really `custom_portal`, not `customer`?

- `content/read` to selected Customer Portals

![Customer Portal permissions](img/cp_permissions.png)

If members of the company don't have sufficient permissions for any Customer Portal, they will be transferred to the default Customer Portal view.

!!! note

>     Customer Portal is only available to users that are members of the company. Even if user has all the sufficient permissions but is not a meber of a company, they will not see the Customer Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Customer Portal is only available to users that are members of the company.
    Even if a user has all sufficient permissions but is not a member of a company, they will not see the Customer Portal.
```
